hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neonews
today.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode of the smart economy
podcast I sat down and chatted with Sid
Powell the CEO and co-founder of maple
Finance Maple Finance is an
Institutional credit Marketplace built
on ethereum through the platform premium
corporate and institutional borrowers
can take out under collateralized loans
from credit pools which are increasingly
being based on real world assets the
maple team themselves don't provide the
capital for the pools but rather the
pool delegates who are responsible for
underwriting the loans and Performing
due diligence on the borrowers in this
conversation Sid and I talk about his
background in debt Capital markets at a
bank and working conversely on the
client inside at a lending business the
conceptualization of maple Finance to
its 2021 launch the types of
institutional clients Maple Finance
seeks the highs and lows of 2022
offering loans backed on assets that
aren't correlated with crypto and much
more just a reminder nothing said on
this podcast is a solicitation to buy or
sell any tokens that nothing should be
taken as Financial advice and that the
host or guests May hold tokens discussed
in any given episode with that said I
really enjoyed chatting with Sid and I
hope you enjoy the conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today I'm joined by Sid
Powell the CEO and co-founder of maple
Finance how you doing today Sid I'm
doing good thanks Dylan glad to be on
here yeah great to have you you know I
heard about Maple finance and kind of
headlines from last year uh good and bad
but that external Market circumstances
which we'll get into but you have a
really cool background so I want to dig
into that a little bit before you
conceptualize Maple Finance with your
co-founder Joe in 2020 and then you
later launched in 2021 you had a variety
of different roles in the kind of
traditional Finance banking sector in
Australia so could you just give a
little bit of your background at
National Australia bank and at angle
Finance yeah sure so I began my career
in uh in banking and I was working in
securitization which means we would be
on a deal team that would help a lending
company who's not a bank to buy borrow
from both Banks and investors in debt
Capital markets so that they could have
the dry powder that they need to make
car loans Home Loans credit card loans
and so it was uh it was a fairly mixed
set of lending businesses we were
working with but the important thing was
that being on the deal side of that
business we got to see how debt Capital
markets worked you know the project that
is helping a company to borrow hundreds
of millions of dollars and then from
there you know it was a very steep
learning curve being in there initially
but then you start to get the hang of it
and then I was very interested to see
how it works from the client side so I
transitioned over to working at a
lending business and was running the
treasury and that meant seeing how their
technology stack Works how they produce
reports when I was a banker I would just
receive an Excel spreadsheet once a
month or a PDF that said how all of the
loans that that company had written were
doing and then I got to transition
across and see how they actually
produced those reports the difficulty
that can go into it the amount of time
that's spent in Excel and then the
challenges of working with about a lot
of people might not know this but when
you do a secured or securitized Bond
issuance you know there's like six
different parties you work with lawyers
custodians trustees security trustees
and they all take a piece of fees and
you know it all contributes to this kind
of hidden cost of doing business as a
lender and dealing with that Capital
markets and so anyway so I worked with
my co-founder Joe there and then it was
mid 2018 we started learning about smart
contracts and we're really interested by
the idea of well instead of just
spending three days putting together a
spreadsheet and emailing that to
somebody to put into a PDF and send it
back to me halfway through the next
month but we just automate all of this
ultimately what stood out to me about
smart contracts is that you can automate
the transfer of money you can't really
do that if you're not a bank and you're
dealing with a bank that's why there are
multi-billion dollar companies like
plaid and stripe all they do is connect
real business that takes place outside
of a bank with transfers of money around
A bank's internal systems what a
blockchain does is it takes the transfer
of money outside of somebody's internal
system and puts it on this worldwide
computer that everybody can see and
everybody can read on and allows you to
program rules into it and so I think it
naturally takes something that was a
private technology and makes it a piece
of commodity infrastructure that we can
all build businesses off and so the real
insight in what we want to do with Maple
is well what we can do is take this
emailing of money this automation of
payments and build a business on top of
that by using that as infrastructure and
so what Maple has tried to do is build a
business that targets lending companies
and that lowers the cost to them of
doing lending operations so we we lower
the cost of middle and back office
functions and give them a Competitive
Edge so it should ultimately stand up at
a competitive level where companies who
use this technology are more profitable
than their competitors competition or
you know markets just don't move forward
unless there is that competitive element
awesome yeah it's so full disclosure
I've never worked in the banking sector
I have no personal insights into what
it's like with traditional Finance
institutions but while you were
describing all of that it sounded very
similar to the home buying purchase
process that I went through when I
bought my condo I had to give fees to
all sorts of people and there was all
sorts of communication about sharing
data and information that just seemed so
outdated and so cumbersome and so paper
intensive and I was just thinking it's
2020 why is none of this digitized why
do I have to sign a million different
pieces of paper uh why can't I just like
stamp a single signature and then have
this be replicated across processes for
the lender and and everybody else so it
kind of resonates a little bit from like
a retail perspective but before we go
even further into the maple Finance
Rabbit Hole you did kind of allude to
learning a little bit more about smart
contracts in 2018 when was the first
time you heard about cryptocurrencies
Bitcoin was it ethereum when was the
first time you heard about it and what
were your initial thoughts
that is a painful question because it
was in 2014 and it was one of my uh one
of the graduates I was with in banking
was telling me about Bitcoin and how
huge it was going to be and I looked at
what Warren Buffett said about it and he
was saying it was a total scam and so I
would uh I would repeat that and then my
view of it was definitely colored by the
fact that I was inside banking so I
naturally viewed it as competition where
people were saying well this is going to
disrupt Banks I was there looking at
where I was getting my paycheck from and
saying well you know hell no because
Bitcoin stuff is worthless going outside
and being a client of a bank as a
business and seeing how difficult it was
to work with them and how many costs
were passed on to us but then ate into
our margins and then needed to be passed
on to our customers and then learning
about smart contracts that was what kind
of got me into it initially so you know
I started buying like ethereum and
Bitcoin back in 2018 but I was more
interested in learning about the smart
contract side of things like it was
really it was really that that piqued my
interest and so I started reading all
the white papers about different you
know securitization structures different
token projects but then in the start of
2019 I wrote a white paper for the
original concept of maple which was
exactly what I'd been doing in in
banking hours Let's Take securitization
let's tranche debt out and let's do that
on chain there was no defy then so I
think maker was probably the only thing
in D5 that existed there was compound
that launched just launched like I
forget whether it was V1 on V2 but I
remember using that and playing around
with it I remember playing with uh
Dharma trying to like ride alone and
then trying to request a loan so that it
could be funded and been confused why
that matching engine wasn't wasn't
working and then set protocol so there
were like four or five different
projects where the totality of D5 and
what we did was I started trying to find
a software development company that
would tell me whether my idea was stupid
or not and then get them to to build a
proof of concept and so you know Joe and
I were putting our own savings into
trying to make that proof of concept
happen and that was mid 2019 so people
were still saying that D5 was was going
to be too small we were idiots for
trying to do loans on chain then we know
that loans wouldn't work people would
just scam it and you forget but the very
early days of PayPal were a lot of fraud
was happening in payment processing and
so that just becomes an engineering
problem that you need to solve but it
was uh a lot of a lot of the kind of the
early conceptual changes from Maple were
happening through 2019 and then 2020
what we realized was start of 2020 we
realized that we needed to have yield
generating Assets in order to be able to
trench them because there was nothing
that you can trench and so we started
doing lending and so started doing very
basic very small scale loans but these
were people who were Anonymous who were
requesting them and you weren't sure if
you were going to get your money back
but we we also built a proof of concept
for that and so you know you write a
couple of loans to people who want to be
early supporters but then we realized it
wasn't going to be scalable you couldn't
earn enough in fees to compensate you
for the amount of time you have to spend
underwriting an individual and you can
understand the nature of a business and
it's propensity to earn profits and a
return above its operating expenses but
it was very difficult to do that with
individuals so as we progress through
2020 we're kind of in the wilderness so
we're thinking where does this go can
this scale and as we got to the middle
of 2020 we uh sort of merged the two
ideas so let's do lending but to
institutions and let's pull it and
tranche it so that we can give people
speed of execution Clarity that they'll
be able to get their loans funded and
also diversify the risk and so that we
we paired lending to institutions with
this idea of pooling that was that was
V1 of maple but people still thought it
wasn't going to work back then yeah and
so uh peppered throughout this
conversation
um I'm gonna ask for just some like Eli
five terms so yeah yeah please just keep
in mind that that's gonna pop up every
now and then so in doing my uh due
diligence on Maple Finance something
that really stuck out to me that really
made made the concept of what you guys
are working on super simple was calling
your platform
um relating it to Shopify yes can you
explain what you mean by that we often
refer to Maple as like Shopify but for
Lending so Shopify supports e-commerce
businesses if you want to open up and
run an e-commerce business you go to
Shopify and it gives you a tool set that
you can use to list products online take
payments ship those products to people
so it's a tool set to be an e-commerce
business but they are not the e-commerce
business themselves
with Maple we wanted to create a tool
set to be a lending business but we
didn't want to be the lending business
ourselves so we created infrastructure
to aggregate Capital to send it out as
loans to record the performance of those
loans and then to pass back the interest
that is earned on those loans to the
lenders who deposited into a pool and
then a front end on which to list that
so without being the balance sheet
ourselves because that would be very
Capital intensive we're able to support
lending businesses and we also we liked
the idea of having an asset like
business model so if you look at
companies like stripe they are
infrastructure and infrastructure scales
and you know it's better for Apple to
create the App Store and take a piece of
the volume that transacts on the App
Store rather than building all of the
apps themselves because then they can't
get as much volume and so we didn't want
to have to underwrite and relearn on the
platform ourselves or source that
capital or take the balance sheet risk
we just wanted to provide a really least
scalable way for other people to make
their lending businesses more profitable
cool thank you and that's also a really
interesting kind of model that your
platform is bringing where you just
connect like and I used to be a city
planner and we would call it the first
and last mile so when you get off a bus
or you get off a train you're trying to
like what's the last mile for me to get
to my destination am I gonna have to
walk am I gonna have to take a bike am I
gonna have to take a taxi cab and so
that was kind of like a large problem
and the planning realm when it came to
Transportation issues and so it sounds
like that's what Maple's doing is
providing that first mile Last Mile
solution now before we dig deeper into
the conversation I do need an Eli five
moment could you just share with me and
with our listeners in simple terms what
a debt Capital Market is yeah so if you
Dylan are running a business let's say
you you really want to expand this
podcast and so you need to buy a bunch
of new equipment you need Finance for it
so you either have your own savings but
let's leave them aside and let's say say
the two ways you can do it are you can
find somebody who wants to share in the
risk and they put in equity the other
way you could do it is you could borrow
money from a bank from a lending company
from another investor or lender and so
though together equity and debt are
capital markets as a whole and when
we're talking about debt Capital markets
we're talking about sourcing the debt
part of that equation the debt Capital
markets is therefore connecting lenders
and investors with borrowers but on the
lender side of that what you have is
asset managers endowments Pension funds
insurance companies Banks non-bank
lenders High net worths family offices
but what they're looking for in common
is a rate of return like a borrowing
rate on the loans that they provide to
you and then they might work with
structurers to manage the risk who
intermediate it and so the space that
we're tackling is debt Capital markets
we want to make it easier for Innovative
companies to borrow and currently all of
that market actually kind of happens
almost
OTC or over the counter like if you want
to borrow you have to find an investment
Bank to broker it there's a listing of
the people who could lend to you
similarly if you wanted to lend there's
no listing of the type of companies that
you can lend to and so a big part of the
technology lift here is making this
stuff more legible by having a kind of
venue where you can read about it you
can see what loans are outstanding
perfect thank you so um when there's a
pool of liquidity or pool of capital
that becomes available it's uh Maple
Finance calls it a credit pool and there
are Financial firms that either act as
the credit pool manager or they delegate
responsibility to that so could you
share a little bit of information about
who these credit pool managers are and
what their role is in Maple Finance I
can so they're called a delegates so
that's uh that is going to be a credit
underwriting team and so they perform
the role they don't custody fund so
those are always held in a smart
contract and that's one of the
advantages of doing it this way but what
they do do is they will speak with
borrowers review The Borrowers
financials and negotiate commercial
terms with the borrowers so the right
amount of Interest the right tenor the
size of the load so that they can
maximize the chance of that borrow
repaying the loan and earn a good
interest rate on those loans so their
typical background will be financial
services so they might have worked in in
banking they might have worked at a
fixed income asset manager they might
have worked in private Equity or private
credit themselves but what the core
thing is they understand financial
statements they understand loan
structuring so different terms because
when when you're kind of near to lending
or banking what you can assume is that
it's kind of a binary yes or no like do
I want to lend to this person or not but
that's really only the start of it
there's ways that you can structure a
loan so that even if somebody seems a
little bit more borderline you can just
shorten the amount of time that you lend
to them for where you can increase the
rate that you lend to them at or you can
require things like collateralization or
different structuring of a loan so that
you maximize your chance of getting that
money back but that's that's what the
delegate does cool and who are the
customers who are the people that are
borrowing through Maple Finance is it me
a retail investor is it an accredited
investor is it an institution who are
your typical clients it's institutions
so the scale like the small if you're
lending to retail it's typically smaller
in size it's also a more regulated
sector whereas when you start to go up
in size you're lending to institutions
they're more sophisticated and so
there's less regulation around it so
it's a little bit more flexible
commercially it's also easier in a lot
of cases to underwrite them to
underwrite and Retail you have to do a
lot of them because you're trying to
average out things like illness divorce
loss of jobs and that's you know that's
a fairly well catered to Market uh
whereas institutions is actually a
shrinking Market banks are pulling out
of lending to institutions unless
they're rated and a lot of that market
is now going to credit funds so it goes
to Aries goes to Apollo goes to Fortress
group and so the rate of return on those
loans is pretty good the supply is too
small for Lending to that market and so
we saw an opportunity to kind of go and
muscle in there and so so the borrowers
uh walking backwards about 12 or 18
months would have only been market
makers and Market neutral funds so I
think companies like wintermute like GSR
b2c2 they didn't all borrow on the
platform but they all perform the
function of providing liquidity on
centralized exchanges and so they need
liquidity to do that like when you're
trading BTC it's often one of them who
you are buying from or selling to and so
they need currency they need liquidity
in order to buy it or sell or you know
borrow the BTC to sell to you but
they're generally hedged so BTC goes up
they're not impacted BTC goes down
they're not impacted so that was kind of
the core borrower but now we're
expanding into real world asset lending
so last week we launched a pool where
the partner called a crew and and uh a
borrower and that pool called in Tarot
and what they do is they are financing
IRS so tax refunds or rebates to small
businesses who are impacted by codex so
a small business wants to open a new
venue or office they need money for a
deposit now they're expecting money back
at the end of the quarter or in six
months time from the IRS but they want
to put down the deposit this week well
they could borrow from Intero and from
the ultimately from that accrued pool so
it's helping real small businesses with
problems of growth and access to Capital
but that for us is going to be a big
Trend in 2023 which is assets and
businesses and borrow underlying
borrowers who are in the real world not
just living on chain but we're the
source of capital comes from unchain and
the advantage of this is real-time
reporting ease of access I can honestly
say there's probably no bank that will
lend to an institution where the
institution can draw down those funds at
the click of a button it'll normally be
on the phone or in sending instructions
over email and it's a pretty cumbersome
manual process and so I expect we'll see
more institutions try and leverage that
technology we'll dig into a crew in a
little bit but I did just want to
clarify because you pulled this line of
logic the pool is going to be dealing
with the employee retention credits and
this is through the IRS is it just this
very specific instance because the way
that I internalized it when I read IRS
if a company is expecting some sort of
tax return then they could take a loan
out against that but that's not
necessarily the case it's only using
these very specific credits yes that's
right it's specifically for employee
retention credits perfect and before we
dig in a little bit more I just wanted
to hear a little bit about your
blockchain philosophy is there a
multi-chain thesis what network is maple
Finance operating on top of I noticed
that it used to be two networks but now
it's one is there a future for multiple
networks I think there is a future for
multiple networks so we Consolidated
because we wanted to move faster on core
products we had the most traction on
ethereum we also built on Solana I think
Solana has very interesting technology
and I would love to see that grow we
made the decision that it's very
important to consolidate resources over
2023 and so we wanted to ship features
faster along One Core product line and
one core product roadmap and this just
allowed us to focus our time so we're
currently operating on ethereum we still
have all of the code to operate Maple
and Salida and so we can do that as we
have more flexibility in future and ftvl
and the need for borrowing their picks
up and so I think probably overall I do
see there being a multi-chain future
where also we are interested in looking
at products that would allow us to
actually be accessible on other chains
without having to go and Fork our code
and replicate the code on other chains
so there's interesting things like super
form you know had a brief conversation
with uh with Wormhole as well recently
and so I am very interested in that
because it means then you only have to
maintain One Core code repo and then you
have this kind of Hub and spoke model
where you have your code running on one
chain and then you have spokes out to
other chains where you can access
liquidity so I do like that concept yeah
that's really cool and is all your code
for Maple Finance open source can I find
it on GitHub it can we just released V2
on GitHub so all those repos are open
source there is very new and uh and very
interesting and novel testing Frameworks
and this kind of you know sub modular
repo uh structure that the team used
which I've seen a lot of people
commenting on on Twitter so if anyone is
a code junkie I do recommend going onto
the uh the maple Labs GitHub and
checking it out and yeah the other thing
we did with V2 is we shifted over to
erc4626 so that what that does is is we
think it will help with composability
and incorporating and building you know
Maple pool tokens into other protocols
whether it's as collaterals secondary
markets liquidity that kind of thing
yeah that's really interesting when you
think of uh institutional grade lending
and borrowing you don't necessarily
think open source so do you your
potential clients future Partners is
this like a friction point is this a
sticking point for them what are those
sort of insights like from the
institution and banking level type folks
I think having our code open source
helps them get comfortable with
accessibility because they can go and
check it themselves they can also see
that the code has been audited so we had
multiple audits on on V2 so I heard
somebody express it I think it was Alex
Danko but he expressed that the
important thing about blockchain is you
have this kind of narrow waste so you
have open source makes it broadly
accessible but then a narrow waste means
everybody has to use the same standards
and that means that it becomes more you
get this network effect and so if I look
at if I Look to treadfire You have this
concept of like an Eisen which is a
security number but it's effectively a
ticker number for different Securities
and instruments and those instruments
don't live in any public place they live
on somebody's private Ledger and so what
blockchain does is it makes everyone
adhere to this same standard but that
makes it open source so far more
accessible and composable and so if I
think of the traditional Finance system
it's a lot of private ledgers duct taped
together by multi-billion Dollar
companies who charge effectively rent
just for connecting private databases
together so I would be if I was those
companies I'm kind of very afraid of
interoperability and Open Standards you
know like four six two six yeah and a
lot of these companies and large
financial institutions they're
oftentimes working on code bases and
using languages that are decades old at
this point some of them have been around
since before I was even alive yeah COBOL
exactly so is this kind of a reckoning
moment that these institutions are
having where they they're realizing that
their code is outdated their developers
are retiring the people who know this
language and they have to upgrade and
update their software bases and the
languages that they use are they kind of
having a reckoning moment right now is
this something that they're embracing
what's like the general Vibe it is a bit
of a reckoning moment it's not really a
reckoning moment though that's induced
by blockchain even when I was at uh at
nav back in 2014 to 2017. there was a
project in 2014 and 2015 which was next
gen so it was upgrading their core
banking platform and it was a multi-year
project and and multi-billion dollars in
in capex and so all banks have to go
through that like I think if you look at
JP Morgan they probably spent about
things like five or six billion a year
on just kind of like core technology
upgrades but that's just natural
detector because if you look at all of
these Banks existed prior to digital
technology and so they had to build
their own system and they found the
system needs to be interoperable with
new technology and other people's
systems and that's really where it
breaks because the original databases
and core banking systems were never
designed with that in mind and so what
happens now to them they either spend
billions of dollars and they they have
the finances to do that but the uh the
problem is can they do that without
breaking their old systems and can they
do it in a way that they don't end up
with this horrible user experience and
what will happen is if is if they they
do execute on it fully banking traffic
and and user growth will go to the Neo
Banks who are all building their new
systems so you have like revolutes
Starlight all these other ones that are
kind of they don't have a 40 year old
Legacy banking system as a problem and
so you might see Banks consolidate by
trying to buy some of those Neo Banks uh
but otherwise I think what you'll see is
actually more Nimble participants it's
the fragmentationally unbundling of the
banking stack so it's not really clear
to me why you would go to a bank that
gives you insurance and a personal
checking account and a business banking
account and wealth management and a home
loan and a car loan and a credit card
like it's actually not clear to me
anymore why they wouldn't just exist as
monoline services that are run by a
specialist who has a good set of skills
there and I think that specialist will
have a smaller technology footprint and
so they're actually going to be much
more competitive and able to offer a
better user experience and to specialize
so anyway that was a long-winded answer
of saying there is a bit of a reckoning
but it's like you know it's it's kind of
happening slowly and uh what I expect to
happen is that piece by piece the
business lines will get taken on chain
if you look at what we're doing we're
doing institutional lending I think we
can do institutional lending at a lower
cost to income ratio than any bank and
therefore I think anyone who uses our
infrastructure is going to be more
profitable at the same interest rate
than a bank and so ultimately that will
just drive traffic our way yeah
and your thesis proved correct for most
of 2022 I do want to caveat that Maple
Finance is the the Shopify of this
institutional lending so you are at the
whims of kind of broader external macro
Market forces so in 2022 earlier in the
year you guys experienced record levels
of lending prior to the new receivables
pool that we'll talk about in a bit
Maple didn't require any collateral to
take out loans but focused on the
borrower's ability to pay back its loans
based on its credit worthiness so how
did this model work what's the sort of
um and you've alluded to this in some of
your previous podcasts that you've been
on and the maple Finance education
series that a lot of the institutional
world doesn't provide collateral when
they're taking out loans so could you
just explain a little bit about why that
is how that that process works and why
it worked so well up until the collapse
of FTX 3ac Celsius block file all the
contagion last year how did that work
well until it didn't how did
uncollateralized lending work well until
it didn't yeah so it's a two-part
question so a how does uncollateralized
lending just work in general in the
institutional world because our
listeners won't have insight into that
and B why did it work so well last year
until it didn't yeah so how lending
Works to businesses in traditional
Finance is typically uncollateralized so
we have you've got broad Clauses of
borrowing and lending so you have ones
that might be collateralized by real
estate that's the residential real
estate market also commercial real
estate but that might be you loaned a
billion dollars to a company that wants
to property developer who wants to build
a skyscraper or buy a skyscraper that
would be lending collateralized by real
estate or that real estate can't just be
instantly so all the way Bitcoin can to
back alone and so if you look at how
Apple borrows Apple will borrow
uncollateralized they might have some
senior secured facilities but typically
most of their account most of their uh
borrowings will be uncollateralized and
when I say uncollateralized it means
that if you're lending to them you get
the money back before they could pay a
dividend so you get the money back
before equity and if they default Equity
needs to be fully wiped out before you
start to lose money but that's still an
unsecured loan in that they haven't
pledged any collateral to you and that's
because they're a business apple is not
in the business of like buying stock and
Bitcoin and other assets so this
phenomenon of borrowing over
collateralize against Bitcoin and eighth
is solely it's solely restricted to
digital asset space the closest
corollary in traditional markets would
be there's actually two car loads one
might be agricultural Finance where you
could lend against some very liquid
collateral like wheat or soybeans and
they can be sold very quickly the other
one would be lending against stock
certificates so like apple buys a bunch
of shares in Microsoft and then borrows
against them and then those shares can
be sold if Apple defaults but it's not
really conducive to running a business
but the core borrowing that began in in
crypto was Bitcoin backed lending and
borrowing because you have this asset
and they can give to you and then you
can sell it really quickly if uh if the
person's in danger of defaulting or
can't meet a margin call and so was the
bulk of lending uh in digital assets and
then as the market expanded yet people
chasing volume and you had more Capital
pumped into those companies like genesis
like block High by VC and other
depositors that was chasing a yield and
it was promised a very high yield and so
at the same time on the borrower so you
had borrowers who now developed a track
record and they were quite large you
know you're looking at market makers who
have hundreds of millions of equity on
their balance sheet and so people
getting comfortable lending large
amounts to them uncollateralized because
they were profitable they had put in
about it that trade went the wrong way
for a number of those uh centralized
Finance providers when the borrowers
started taking directional risk free AC
ultimately was taking directional risk
and uh as was Alameda Alameda also had
different issues in terms of fraud
brassy as well but the core issue was
that the funds were not being used in a
market neutral kind of way and so the
real cause of the problem is Market is
ultimately Market structure and then
poor risk underwriting practices by the
lenders the core like most of the lines
on Maple and we are of course the
platform we don't actually make the
underwriting decisions ourselves that's
the role of the delegate Maple had
originated about 1.9 billion in loans
and there were two defaulting borrowers
so orthogonal and uh Babel and in each
case it was due to issues on the trading
side of the business which caused them
to default and uh so it was about 45
million of cumulative defaults so about
a 2.3 default rate which is actually not
not bad and Compares very favorably with
the C5 truck record of underwriting over
that period and what is prompted people
what has prompted us to look at doing
now is diversifying The Lending
opportunities so push more into real
world assets because ultimately whilst
those market makers if done properly
should be Market neutral and thus not
correlated to crypto prices their
appetite to borrow is correlated to
crypto prices and you can see that there
are operational risks like whether they
get hacked whether they have funds on a
centralized exchange like FTX you know a
lot of them trade on binance finance
doesn't not have audited financials
Finance does not have a board of
directors would I lend to finance like
those are the questions you have to ask
yourself and ultimately if you're
lending to a market maker who trades 70
or 50 of their volume on on binance are
you comfortable with that ultimate
counterparty risk so anyway so what
we're seeing now is a push into
non-correlated forms of lending so tax
credit receivables reinsurance we're
also looking at doing a pool that would
bring the treasury cash Management
Services on chain as well so lending
against uh t-bills and then on the
market making and lending to a digital
asset hedge fund side of things we would
look at bringing active collateral
management into that equation so we
would still have our loans on chain the
pools are still holding funds
non-custodally and bankruptcy remote but
now you can have a qualified custodian
who takes layer one Bitcoin doesn't
re-hypothecate it and where that can
speak with our smart contract so I'm
pretty excited about that and that's uh
that's already underway so from kind of
like a personal perspective you kind of
hit it out the park in the beginning of
the year and then you see like uh these
supposedly Big Blue Chip type names in
the crypto space start to go under one
by one what does that do for your team's
confidence and its due diligence process
because it's kind of got to feel like a
slap in the face when so many people
were trusting FTX and this just kind of
the fraud and the collapse kind of came
out of nowhere how does that change your
new due diligence process because it's
kind of got to be like a a splash of
cold water in the face and uh coming
back to the judge so we don't do the due
diligence on the borrowers because we
don't decide that but what we want to
review is the pool delegates and how
they're doing due diligence on borrowers
and so there is going to be a big
emphasis where they're lending to
digital asset firms on verifiability so
using things like Fedora to see what the
asset balance on centralized exchanges
are and full verification like proof and
proof of control of wallet's proof of
the on-chain balances and then tying
that with what's happening off chain I
mean ultimately that the two core
sources of those two defaults that had
occurred on the platform because
remember that the delegates had actually
had a lot of wins on the board so
overall very low default rate uh and
also they managed to exit Alameda you
know months before they defaulted
through sort of prudent underwriting of
the balance sheet but the ultimate risk
came from uprisk so in Babel was the
first borrower default that was poor
controls between the trading arm and the
lending arm of the business and
ultimately the loan was to The Lending
arm and then with orthogonal again sort
of issues on the trading side of the
business and so what we do want to do is
really bring up that standard of
underwriting for the delegates and so
we've implemented internally we have a
commercial committee that meets once a
month proposes delegates will have a
framework and a due diligence memo on
those delegates that will cover
everything from how do they how do they
do underwriting How do they manage
operational risk what's their background
in history that is something we're
concentrating more on and as well you
can have a healthier level of diversity
of delegates across the platform as well
probably last year there was an over a
concentration among a smaller number of
delegates so that needs to be
Diversified so that we don't have as a
platform and a protocol don't have
systemic exposure to one I hope this
next question I'm going to ask makes
sense does the diversification of the
delegate pools is that what was sort of
an inspiration for Maple 2.0 or is maple
2.0 kind of created first and then that
allows for this expanded pool of
delegates the two are actually
independent so we could with Maple 2.0
we can have more delegates we could have
had more delegates under Maple 1.0 but
remember that when we launched that
delegate business model was very new so
there weren't a lot of people who were
taking us up on it and so there was a
smaller number of delegates now that
we're more familiar we've even seen
other platforms kind of adopting this
delegate model so there are now more
people will willing to participate as a
delegate what Maple 2.0 has helped with
is it's streamlined the withdrawals so
before you might have had an issue where
if you're in the poor Dylan and I was in
the pool you could try and front run me
if you thought a borrower was going to
default to exit and now that can't
happen so now you and I are both treated
equally and we both get the same window
of time and you have a maximum amount
that you can withdraw and I have a
maximum amount that I can withdraw but
the two if I would draw before you
you're still able to withdraw the other
thing we can do is we can impair a
borrower who seems in distress early so
that that impairment is shared across a
higher number of deposits rather than
people trying to exit to front run that
impairment so I think both of both those
are very important elements we also took
MPL out of cover which is that
subordinated press lost capital and this
just means that there's no wrong way
risk for people and MPL is is the
platform's native token governance yeah
native governance token and so was that
used as sort of a backstop for
collateral in case of you know hitting
the fan it was used for a backstop to
have the delegates have skin in the game
and also it could be liquidated if there
were defaults within a pool the first
example you gave was that the First lost
capital for lenders that Maple 2.0 now
enacts yeah so the First lost capital is
now just usdc so there's no denomination
or no basis risk where it's it's no
longer a denominator in a fluctuating
currency so one of the things we'll do
over the course this year will introduce
tranching probably in a more fulsome way
which will mean that you can have a
larger proportion of protection for
people who are lending that then opens
up really interesting things like maybe
we could get one of these pools rated
then starts to look more interesting for
Pension funds insurance companies that
just want like stable protected rates on
on lending and the tranching will that
have some sort of insurance for like
safer levels of higher tranches how do
you envision that trenching naturally
provides a form of insurance because
it's like let's say you and I want to
lend to a friend let's call them Andy if
you lend Andy 80 and I learned Andy
twenty dollars but my twenty dollars is
supporting that to you if Andy can only
repay 90 then I lose ten dollars I get
ten dollars back but you get your full
80 back so that's how tranching works so
it naturally offers a form of insurance
to whoever is kind of senior in the in
that structure perfect and this might be
just the because I again am not in this
in the space that you walk in so like
with somebody like a crew or one of the
other delegates that you have joined the
platform is the biggest hurdle for these
traditional kind of Institutions coming
into the space like learning how to
convert their traditional assets into a
digital asset into a token what's kind
of like the process success for your
delegate Partners as they walk down this
road and eventually enter into the quote
unquote web 3 space one of the biggest
hurdles is you're quite right that
unramping and off-ramp bank so we lend
like the platform lens in usdc which is
a stable coin I would much rather have
stable coins like an easily low-cost
cheap way of transferring money around
the world then Fiat held in a bank
account and so I think adoption of
stablecoin usage will grow over time we
are even talking to a bank about how
they can grow grow the adoption and
penetration of a stable coin they
launched but when Banks start launching
it I don't see what like I don't see why
that process wouldn't continue of uh
growing adoption but I think that the
trends are if we look at what's happened
in the last six months Apple a now
accepts usdc payments Visa has settled
transactions with usdc so that's like a
Tailwind where if we just you know if we
remain in business doing this lending
over time that level of adoption of
stablecoin usage will grow and that
become less of a problem for us we are
tactically looking out for solutions for
on and off ramps but uh that that's
something where I think the trend is you
know the trend is our friend there yeah
and from your conversations that you're
having with institutions are these
conversations about using digital stable
coins is it solely directed around usdc
and usdt these kind of crypto native
stable coins or is the conversation
about cbdc starting to leak in as well I
think cbdc's are interesting My ultimate
vision is that CB like if you look at
one of the financial institutions we're
looking at supporting uh their own
stablecoin that stablecoins erc20 so
it's happening on ethereum like
ultimately if you're going to issue a
stable coin you wouldn't go and create a
different private chain for it uh you
would just do it on the Chain whether
it's the most liquidity and so I think
those will proliferate across kind of
the core chain that people are using
today and there's no reason cbdc's can't
be part of that I think the challenge
with cbdcs are is that can a government
go and hire a bunch of smart contract or
protocol Engineers like very difficult
to see the best engineering talent in a
country going and working for the
government creating cbdcs so just on a
cost basis can they bear the engineering
cost of doing that I actually think the
solution will end up being privatized so
if you think about it you know even even
with highways you'll often have a
public-private partnership where a
private company will do that they'll
they'll take a financing package to do
so but they'll earn a management fee
from that I think stablecoin issuance
will follow the model sort of Step by
circle with usdc where you have several
kind of mandated private sector
providers who just have to adhere to
slas set by the Federal Reserve and they
collect a fee for running that
Enterprise and it's ultimately lower
cost and a better user experience than
if the government had just gone to try
and provide it themselves so I think
that'll happen in every country that's
fascinating Insight how are the banks
going to be able to lure these open
source smart contract developers you
know this technology inside and out
banks have a very difficult problem
because they're not even allowed to hold
tokens at the moment so this is like
very interesting and then it's happening
at an offshore bank but as far as I know
there are no onshore banks that are even
close to being permitted to hold tokens
themselves and so as long as they keep
saying they don't have the regulatory
Clarity that they would need to hold
assets themselves then what you're going
to see is a competitor will come in who
is not regulated the same way who will
it's kind of like classic competition
but I think you'll see a competitor come
in like Circle issue their own stable
coin and then eventually back their way
into a banking license or a banking
Charter and that would be very
challenging for the banks to then enter
and compete with that and right now the
regulatory landscape in the U.S is very
discombobulated there's competition
between Regulators for who has the right
to lay the law down and regulate this
industry do you have a positive outlook
in the short short term meaning one to
three years that the US will kind of get
their stuff together at the risk of
crypto companies kind of choosing to
locate offshore tough question uh I I
think you know next two years is
probably difficult to see any major
breakthroughs and regulation I think
stable coins are probably the first one
I think over uh let's call it like a
three to five year period I'm probably
much more optimistic on potential free
outcomes I'm naturally optimistic but I
would point to the fact that we have had
kind of intransigence in regulation like
if you look at credited investor laws
and where most hedge funds are located
most hedge funds are not located within
the US and that's a legal issue that has
persisted for about 30 years and costs
the US uh GDP points like there's no
other way to look at it but but there
are GDP points that are flowing offshore
because you can't easily set up hedge
funds and things on Shore so if you have
to set up crypto Vehicles offshore
lawyers will offer that service and
people will take them up on it and I
will just to be an extra cost that is
worn by the system but I I hope that's
not the case and that you can do that
unsure and therefore that income can you
know continue to be reinvested in the US
economy perfect yeah thank you for I
just appreciate the uh perspective and
the Insight just from the world that you
operate within it's it's nice to hear
different perspectives so before the
collapse of FTX and Celsius 3ac and all
these entities very crypto heavy
entities before you kind of saw the
issues that you saw with these types of
lenders was Maple Finance already
thinking about adding real world assets
to the platform did the collapse of
these crypto entities kind of expedite
that process what were you guys thinking
uh yesterday so we have always thought
about doing remote assets on the
platform because the ultimate vision is
a capital market so really I want to
carve out a niche for Maple and and we
want to carve out a niche in lending to
institutions who are doing Innovative
things I look at growing Industries
whether it's space and uh some of the
companies that are doing things there
that will require large amounts of debt
financing to do those ambitious projects
whether it's that whether it's things
like nuclear power like I want us to be
financing those Cutting Edge
Technologies and companies that are
doing really good things there I think a
lot of them are going to have challenges
borrowing from Banks just because banks
are now so heavily regulated that they
mostly get pushed towards either lending
to publicly rated companies or to
residential real estate because you know
the job that the regulator is to squish
the amount of risk that is borne by
depositors and so I think banks become
less exciting businesses and and less
willing to finance kind of The Cutting
Edge of the private sector so I think
that's you know that's where we can
expand and that means real assets and so
we will always always heading in that
direction we just realized we had to
take it in Stepping Stones we couldn't
go and finance like a massive
infrastructure project of 100 million
bucks or more of right off the bat we
never would have got started and I think
that's where a lot of other people who
try to be entrepreneurs in this space
fell short was they didn't realize they
would have to take an an incrementalist
or a sequential process to get there so
we've done that I mean if you look at
the minor Finance pool that we were
launching that was like 11 months of
work to get that off the ground and so
that meant investment in legal contracts
identifying the market and so we'll
continue that Trend the collapse of FTX
though accelerated that because
otherwise we could have lived off of
this existing Market of market makers
and Market initial funds and uh now
we're going to be hungrier if we
continued lending to that segment alone
and so you know that's why we're going
for these non-correlated segments
whether it's tax receivables or
reinsurance treasury yield eventually
leveraged Finance our real estate are
all segments that we want to bring on
chain awesome and uh kind of wrapping up
I did just want to get a another little
Eli five question in receivable
financing is one of the oldest
commercial Finance products but I myself
not being in this space and I would
assume many of our listeners might not
be privy to what a trade receivable is
so could you just share just like what
is that explain to me like I'm five and
why is it generally seen as kind of a
safe asset to integrate into Maple
Finance yeah so let's imagine Dylan that
you have a cookie manufacturer and so
you produce delicious chocolate cookies
and your cookies get sold at Walmart so
what you do is at the start of the month
you ship 100 pallets of cookies to
Walmart and then Walmart says we're
really big we're going to pay you a 90
day term we'll pay you for these cookies
but you've got to wait 90 days to get it
and so what they do is they take it and
in that time they sell all of it and
then they pay you at the end of the 90
days now Walmart is a really good
counterparty but that is what you call
an accounts receivable or a trade
receivable for you when you give the
cookies to Walmart without payment
you're effectively financing them and so
what trade receivables finances is that
we could give you 90 cents on the dollar
like let's say ultimately Walmart needed
to pay you a million dollars for those
cookies we could give you nine hundred
thousand dollars and then 90 days later
we collect from Walmart the one million
dollars and then our implicit yield or
implicit interest rate is that hundred
thousand dollars multiplied by four in
that instance but it's good for us
because it's short term so we're only
waiting 90 days to collect the money we
can look through at that counterparty
and say well Dylan might be a really
small company Dylan's biscuits but
Walmart is a really large company it's
publicly rated and so actually it's like
AAA risk uh not Triple A it's not gonna
literally but it could be like a plus
risk or something like that so then you
have good counterparty exposure so good
yield good counterparty exposure short
data three things that make it pretty
good perfect thank you you kind of
alluded to this earlier but I just want
to clarify is maple Finance looking to
support any other forms of collateral
Beyond usdc usdc is not the collateral
we support usdc is the denomination and
we learned it and so we've lent in uh
wrap teeth uh happy to look at other
types of stable coins uh we have been
pitched on a very just about every every
stable coin but remember we also have to
Source the inventory so I remember
people pitching us on UST back in the
day we declined to do that one
fortunately smart we've also looked at
tether but we need to Source a large
inventory of tether in order to be able
to lend it and so it is like any
business we have inputs and usdc is one
of our inputs and uh you know we're very
happy working with circle as a partner
we would like to support more
denominations and particularly as we as
we expand and serve people in other
countries the idea of a Euro stablecoin
an AUD stablecoin a Japanese
awesome uh just a couple more questions
I kind of want to end on a high level
kind of big picture conversation what is
your perspective on the future of real
world tokenized assets on chain are we
just heading towards a world where it's
t-bills and the assets you've already
discussed or is it also going to impact
retail in a way where the deed to my car
or the title to my house is also going
to be on chain what's just your take and
your Insight on that I think naturally
in a far future it will be the day to
your house will be on chain the day to
your car will be on chain because if you
look at it it's uh the alternative is
that that sits in a database somewhere
and ultimately the lowest cost database
is a public one so I think those
eventually do go Unchained and then you
could have a loan against your car and
then the token for your car or the
receivable you could either have your
car is tokenized or a loan secured by
your R is tokenized and when it's
tokenized it becomes much easier to
package it up and to finance it at a
wholesale level so vehicle auto loans
are one of the biggest securitization
markets in the US and in Europe
Volkswagen Mercedes Toyota all huge
issuers of uh asset-backed Securities
and I think that's naturally going to
find its way on shape it'll take a long
time though because it's already a
relatively well catered to Market it's
very liquid and margins are very tight
awesome wrapping up what are you and
this could either be the broader crypto
space blockchain space or about Maple
what are you most excited about for 2023
all right I'm gonna I'm gonna give an
answer that is maple specific so we're
launching the treasury is pulled soon so
that is going to be a pool where loans
are secured by t-builds I think it's
hugely exciting there's no cash
management products on chain if you look
at it you have to put your funds into
Ave or a compound and bear smart
contract risk for a one percent or
meanwhile treasuries have been earning
you know four and a half percent off
chain so I think that's product that is
sorely needed in the space so we're
going to try and cater to that but I
think over 2023 it's the continued trend
of real one assets coming Unchained so
we want to see the growth of the
accruple and uh and other pools that
we're launching so perfect and if anyone
who is listening to this wants to keep
in contact with you or with Maple
Finance what's the best way to do so so
we are maple dot Finance you can go to
our website and register interest if
you're interested in lending or uh we
are pretty active on Twitter so at Maple
Finance one word I am at syrup Sid one
word and if you slide into our DMS will
be pretty responsive so yeah
maple.finance or app make or Finance on
Twitter Sid thank you so much for uh
sharing your time with us today and
joining the smart economy podcast I was
looking forward to this conversation I
don't generally get to chat with folks
who are in your kind of Realm with
traditional finance and as well as the
crypto blockchain space so it's a
fascinating conversation great to hear
your insights and I really look forward
to following the the storyline that will
be Maple Finance through 2023 and Beyond
awesome thanks for having me Dylan
really appreciate it cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation
I thought it was really fascinating to
learn more about Sid's somewhat negative
perspective when he first heard about
Bitcoin while he was working at a bank
but how has tune changed when he moved
over to the client side of the industry
and saw the value that public blockchain
networks can offer it was also really
easy to internalize how Maple Finance
operates when Sid compared their
infrastructure to Shopify which provides
tools for e-commerce entities that
already manage and run their own
business and I'm really intrigued to see
how the integration of pools backed by
real world assets will decouple Maple
Finance from the whims of the crypto
markets it will be really interesting to
see how Maple Finance expands in 2023 on
that note I want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast if you liked what
you heard and want to support the show
please keep Leo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
[Music]